Welcome back.
This is the 20th video of this master class.
And and we're going to see how we can build a relationship with your interviewer before and during.
Now, before the interview, you presumably have been told the name of the person.
If you're at a walk in interview, then you will not have the chance to.
You may not have the chance to talk about your your interview or name and their interest and things
like that.
But if you do have the opportunity, you should definitely perform either a LinkedIn search or a Google
search just to find out what their interests are, what their leadership style is, what they care about,
things like that, perhaps even volunteering activities.
Now, once you have that in place, try to match that with what you have done, what your skills are,
what your interests are.
They would definitely be interesting conversation pieces.
They will also help you break the ice and establish a good communication channel that you can build
their own.
And they will also help you put your your own self at ease before and during the interview.
Let's talk about what you can do during the interview.
In.
Like I mentioned before, Chris was one of the leading FBI negotiators and the creator of of the Black
Swan Group.
He also wrote a book called Never Split the Difference.
And it's all about negotiating.
And if you haven't read that book or if you haven't watched his masterclass, I highly recommend it
because it is one of the best masterclass videos out there that you're ever going to find.
Huge fan.
Anyway.
Chris Wallace talks about a few different tricks to establishing a relationship with people.
Now, like I mentioned before.
One of the fundamental things about human nature is the need to be heard.
And you can do that.
You can either be heard or make sure that you're projecting yourself in a in a way to your interviewer,
that you're hearing them, you're actively listening by mirroring them.
You want to show them that the two of you are on the same wavelength.
So how do you do that when your interviewer leans forward to talk to you, to convey something, then
you lean forward as well.
You don't need to lean all the way forward, but at least a gesture of forward leaning motion.
And that's enough.
When your interviewer picks up a glass of water to drink, then you can do the same thing.
You can always carry some water.
There's no rule against not drinking water during an interview or not having a coffee during an interview.
Sometimes people just function better with these things and you can always pick it up.
SIP at the same time if your interviewer changes their position.
Then you can end up doing the same thing.
You can also change your position a little bit.
What that tells the interviewer is, subconsciously, you're both kind of synchronized.
You're on the same wavelength, which means cosmically you're an extension of the same, let's say,
energy level.
Then people tend to trust you more.
People tend to open up when they notice that you're in sync.
Another good way to establish a relationship is to repeat the last few words of what your interviewer
says.
So when your interviewer asks you question, you rephrase the question and ask them back.
Is this what you want to know?
What that tells the interviewer is that you are actively interested.
You're listening to what they have to say and you're trying to understand the question clearly before
you respond to them.
When your interview interviewer gives you information, then you can always repeat the last few words
to show that you're paying attention, to show that you're invested in that conversation and your entire
focus is on the interview at that point of time.
A third way to do this is through your tone of voice.
Now, don't use commanding.
Tone of voice or commanding language during an interview.
You see what I did there?
You don't want to use commanding body language or tone of voice because you're not there to upstage
your interviewer.
You're not there to take over from them.
You're not there to take their position away.
You're there to solve a problem.
And so it's imperative that you show a certain degree of difference because.
Invariably, your interviewer will be the one that.
You will be reporting to or there will be someone in a hierarchically higher position than you, and
you need to respect that.
So by showing by using either the slow, relaxed tone or slight upward inflection at the end.
You're showing submissive, submissive tone of voice, which means you're showing a little bit of difference.
You can do this while still projecting yourself as an expert.
It has nothing to do with that.
You just need to show confidence in your own skills and present yourself as an expert while at the same
time.
Don't projecting overconfidence.
Not saying that if you don't hire me, then it's your loss.
It doesn't always work that way.
Sometimes it might, but not always.
We'll talk about some of that in the future videos where we talk about some selling methods that you
could use effectively during the interview.
So at this moment, you're in an interview and you know what kind of body language you need to be using.
You also know what kind of research you need to be doing before your interview.
And at the end of this video, you'll know exactly what you need to do to build a relationship with
your interviewer.
Start before and continue that.
Continue to build a relationship during the interview.
The interview doesn't need to be questions and answers.
Have you done this?
Yes.
Have you done that?
No.
That's not very engaging.
And at the end of the interview, you think if you were interviewing ten candidates today, would you
remember yourself as a candidate?
Would have you created a memorable enough experience and left a happy memory in the mind of the interviewer
that they should even think about you if they've interviewed ten people?
That's the kind of relationship that you want to build.
Thank you so much for watching and I look forward to seeing you in the next video.